Eric Sun
Ms. Conway
ELA Pre-AP 10 Y 
19 March 2019
The Kuril Islands Setting Essay.
	You stumble on to the barren, rocky ground, your clothing still dripping with sea water. A burning sensation vents up your nostrils from the aggressive saline sprays you have been inhaling. Yet you are too tired, too dumbfounded to care, as sharp strokes of wind and rain batters into your face, penetrating into your skin. There is absolutely no protection, no guarantee of assistance. You are left to your own devices as you ponder how you were abandoned to this god-forsaken land. You are to endure the splendour of raw nature, isolated and forgotten. The biting coolness of the North Pacific air, and the raw natural elements of wind and rain, become your omnipresent acquaintances. You fight, you struggle in this damp and cold corner of the earth -- your home. You yearn for the warmth of volcanic heat, and for the fulfillment of food, when the hope of being rescued by human society seems so small it is no more than just a glint in your eye. You are condemned, here.  
	The Kuril Islands is a sparsely populated archipelago with the Kamchatka Peninsula to its north and the island of Hokkaido to its south(Cobb). Its rocky shorelines are constantly pounded by the force of the North Pacific Ocean to the east and Sea of Okhotsk to west(Cobb). Being a part of the Ring of Fire that encircles the Pacific Ocean, the Kuril Islands experience frequent tectonic instability, and are dotted with active volcanoes, hotsprings, and fumaroles(Cobb).  Born explosively through volcanic eruptions in the late Cretaceous period, the Kuril Islands have a  generally rocky and jagged landscape interspersed with grassland, beaches, and rapid streams.(Kuril) With an economy relying heavily on fishing and mineral extraction, the Kuril Islands is plagued by unreliable infrastructure and economic underdevelopment(Cobb). Described by early French explorer Jean-Francois Galaup as a “horrible... uninhabitable… arid rock”, it no doubt will prove to be an unforgiving and challenging environment for any individual to survive through(Cobb). Characterized by its rugged landscape, forsaken isolation, and unpredictable weather, the Kuril Islands possess the most suitable natural features as a setting for a suspenseful story of wilderness survival.  
	Yet the Kuril Islands, hidden behind its dank and daunting facade in a corner of the world that is seemingly evaded by the technology and development of the modern world, is also a place of striking, untamed natural beauty. Described by Russian poet Sergey Narovchatov as the place where “The earth squeezed the folds / And raised a bridge over the sea”, the dramatic appearance of the Kurils, each island a different statue of green oasis rising out from the frigid sea, would certainly provide the most naturally appealing backdrop for any survival story(Narovchatov). 
An inspiring story of survival should not only document how men attempt to overcome nature, but it should also instill within the reader an incomprehensible awe of nature’s power. What good will an endless frozen white plain, or monochromatic sand dunes as far as the eye can see serve, when anyone without the most professional experience and the most comprehensive equipment will die at the instant of their introduction to such locales? It can not be denied that the Kurils, being rough and rugged, possess enough resources to offer any individual, both strong in will and body, an opportunity to fight and survive.
However, one would be most sorely mistaken to believe that the Kuril Islands are by any means a comfortable abode. Forgotten by Moscow and physically separated the most remote parts of the Russian mainland, while also being in a contentious political situation with its prosperous southern neighbour, the Kurils are some of the isolated places in the Far East(Cobb). Its isolation, although both the cause and result of its poverty and economic underdevelopment, is a significant factor that makes the Kuril Islands so outstanding a setting for a story of survival. It is obvious, as an archipelago, that there is no way for any individual to freely commute between the different islands, and between the islands and mainlands, without the aid of proper navigation or aerospace equipment. Thus, an individual placed on any of the inhabited Kuril Islands is most definitely isolated, and alone with nature. Additionally, the transport infrastructure of Kuril Islands is limited and outdated. Sporadic ferry and helicopter services link the inhabited Southern Kuril Islands with Sakhalin and Hokkaido, while the northern islands are practically impossible to reach(Cobb).  With only 13 kilometres of paved roads and unstable connections to mobile reception, even the most populated parts of the Kurils can feel distant from the modern world(Japan's). This isolation is what makes the Kuril Islands such a great setting for a survival story, as any protagonist can not easily rely upon amenities of modern industry to seek help or escape. 
The Kuril Islands, not only isolated from the comforts of civilization, are also cursed by the most hideous climate. Situated roughly between 44 and 50 degrees north latitude, the majority of the Kurils fall under the classification of a subarctic climate(Kottek). This is characterised by the Kurils’ short, wet, and foggy summers, as well as its notoriously long and bitter winters(Kiprop). With an average daily low of negative nine degrees celsius by February, its freezing temperatures can pose a significant challenge to any individual attempting to survive independently on the Kuril Islands(Climate). Without adequate clothing, a litany of health emergencies such as hypothermia or frostbite is able to easily incapacitate any human attempting to survive in the Kurils in winter(Cold). Its frigid temperatures will certainly add another level of excitement to any survival story set in the Kurils, enhancing its credentials as a most thrilling setting. 
Inhabited by 23,000 individuals over an area of 10,504 square kilometres, some would argue the relatively high population density of the Kuril Islands would lower its difficulty for human survival(Cobb). This idea is especially appealing considering that the Kuril Islands can be called a busy metropolis when compared to other desolate and uninhabitable locations  which too can pose as the setting of a survival story, such as Antarctica(Antarctica). It thus is easy to think that there are far superior places of utter wilderness than the Kurils when judging by population density alone. This assumption, however, does not take into account that the population of Kuril Islands is concentrated amongst a few larger main islands in the archipelago, and many inaccessible smaller islands, such as Urup or Yankicha, are not inhabited(Cobb). Many of these islands, separated from human presence by leagues of turbulent and frigid sea, are no closer to humanity than the most distant corners of the Earth for a stranded survivor in need of help.
 Another point that can be raised, and is most evidently present, is the abundance of freshwater found on the Kuril Islands(Cobb). Any individual can easily rehydrate through melting sea-ice and snow during winter, and by finding plentiful natural springs and streams in summer(Climate; Cobb). Man, however, does not live by water alone, and without the assurance of heat, food, and safety for which he must labour, his life is as extinguishable as ever. 
There is no better place than the Kuril Islands, appearing only as a trail of miniscule pebbles that dot the North Pacific Ocean, and forgotten by the modern world, to be the setting of a tale of survival. Nowhere in the world can match its cruel paradox of striking beauty, blended in with the most malicious forces of nature. The Kurils are an epic. It refuses to be toppled by the sea or tamed by men; it fights back. And that is what makes the Kurils so enchanting a backdrop to a tale of human survival. 








Works Cited
“Antarctica.” National Geographic , National Geographic Society, 9 Oct. 2012, www.nationalgeographic.org/encyclopedia/antarctica/. Accessed 12 Apr. 2020.
“Climate Iturup Island.” Meteoblue, Meteoblue, www.meteoblue.com/en/weather/ historyclimate/climatemodelled/iturup-island_russia_2125177.  Accessed 12 Apr. 2020.
Cobb, Charles. “Storm Watch Over the Kurils.” National Geographic Oct. 1996: 48-67. Print. 
“Cold Temperature Exposure.” HealthLink BC, Province of British Columbia, 23 Sept. 2018, www.healthlinkbc.ca/health-topics/colde. Accessed 12 Apr. 2020.
“Japan's Plan to Resolve a 70-Year-Old Row with Russia Is Failing.” The Economist, The Economist Newspaper, 14 Dec. 2017, www.economist.com/asia/2017/12/14/japans -plan-to-resolve-a-70-year-old-row-with-russia-is-failing. Accessed 12 Apr. 2020.
Kiprop, Victor. “What Is a Subarctic Climate?” WorldAtlas, WorldAtlas, 1 Nov. 2017, www.worldatlas.com/articles/what-is-a-subarctic-climate.html. Accessed 12 Apr. 2020.
Kottek, Markus, et al. “World Map of the Köppen-Geiger climate classification updated.” Meteorologische Zeitschrift, vol. 15, no. 3, Jun. 2006. http://koeppen-geiger.vu- wien.ac.at/pdf/Paper_2006.pdf
Kuril Islands.” Geology Page, Geology Page, 22 Jan. 2013, www.geologypage.com /2013/01/kuril-islands.html. Accessed 12 Apr. 2020.
Narovchatov, Sergey. “Покрыл бамбук пологий склон”[“Bamboo covered gentle slope”].
















